h1. cache_proxy

A mixin that provides better encapsulation and control when using cache in Rails

Does cache-proxy helps your daily work with Rails? So, "please recommend me in Work With Rails":http://workingwithrails.com/recommendation/new/person/9370-lucas-h-ngaro and thanks for your kindness! :)

h2. Why?

Using the default Rails abstration for caching will scatter calls to Rails.cache all over your code. Also, it isn't trivial to bypass the cache when you need to - most of the time you end up creating two versions of the "same" method: one cached and one uncached. Using cache-proxy you will encapsulate the access to the cache and will be able to bypass the cached result using a hash option.

h2. How?

First, install the gem:

<pre>
$ [sudo] gem install cache_proxy
</pre>

Then, add it as a dependency in your code using your favorite way (a simple require or mechanisms like the Bundler gem).

The gem will provide you a module to mixin into the classes the access the cache. For example:

<pre>
class User < ActiveRecord::Base
  include CacheProxy

  has_many :search_terms, :dependent => :destroy, :order => "term ASC"

  def saved_search_terms
    cache_proxy("my_cache_key") do
      self.search_terms
    end
  end
end
</pre>

The cache_proxy method gives you the possibility of passing in two options:

<pre>
	# this will bypass the cache and hit the storage, default is true
    cache_proxy("my_cache_key", :cached => false) do
      self.search_terms
    end

	# time to live, default is 30.days
    cache_proxy("my_other_cache_key", :cache_expires_in => 2.hours) do
      self.expensive_canculations
    end
</pre>

And... that's it! You can use it both in class and instance methods.

h2. Note on Patches/Pull Requests

* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

h2. Contributors

This library was implemented in conjunction with "Nando Vieira":http://simplesideias.com.br/, a really great programmer and friend.

h3. Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Lucas Húngaro. See LICENSE for details.